Update Contributing Guide (#2010)
iptv-org/iptv: .github/CONTRIBUTING.md

- find the corresponding ISO_3166-2 code for the country. You can find a full list of codes here: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-2
- open the `/channels` folder and find the file that has the same code in its name and open it
- find the broken link in this file
- replace it with working one
- commit all changes
- send a pull request

**Do you want to report a channel that is not on the playlist?**

Create an [issue](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/issues/new?assignees=&labels=channel+request&template=channel-request.md&title=Add%3A+xxx) with a description of the channel (**IMPORTANT:** an issue should contain a request for only one channel, otherwise it will be closed immediately).

**Would you like to add a new channel to playlist?**

- make sure that the link you want to add works. It is recommended to use [VLC media player](https://www.videolan.org/vlc/index.html) for this
- check if the channel is working outside your country. You can use services like [streamtest.in](https://streamtest.in/) to do this

> - find out the full name of the channel and from which country it is broadcasting. This information can usually be found on [lyngsat.com](https://www.lyngsat.com/search.html) or [wikipedia.org](https://www.wikipedia.org/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- find out the full name of the channel and from which country it is being broadcasted. This information can usually be found on [lyngsat.com](https://www.lyngsat.com/search.html) or [wikipedia.org](https://www.wikipedia.org/)
```

- find the corresponding ISO_3166-2 code for the country. You can find a full list of codes here: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-2
- open the `channels/` folder and find a file with the same name as the country code
- at the very end of this file add a link to the channel with a description
- commit all changes
- send a pull request

> In case you were unable to determine which country the channel belongs to, you can put a link to it in the `channels/unsorted.m3u`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case you were unable to determine which country the channel belongs to, add the channel onto the `channels/unsorted.m3u` playlist.
```

**Do you want to sort the channels from "channels/unsorted.m3u"?**

> - find out the full name of the channel and from which country it is broadcasting. This information can usually be found on [lyngsat.com](https://www.lyngsat.com/search.html) or [wikipedia.org](https://www.wikipedia.org/)

Reviewer: Same as above.
```suggestion
- find out the full name of the channel and from which country it is being broadcasted. This information can usually be found on [lyngsat.com](https://www.lyngsat.com/search.html) or [wikipedia.org](https://www.wikipedia.org/)
```

- update the channel name if necessary
- find the corresponding ISO_3166-2 code for the country. You can find a full list of codes here: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-2
- open the `channels/` folder and find a file with the same name as the country code
- at the very end of this file add a link to the channel with a description
- commit all changes
- send a pull request

**Do you want to change the channel category?**

- find the file that contains the channel. You can use a [GitHub Search](https://github.com/search/advanced?q=CHANNEL_NAME+repo%3Aiptv-org%2Fiptv+path%3A%2Fchannels&type=Code) to do this.
- open the file
- find the channel description
- specify the appropriate category in the `group-title` attribute. A complete list of supported categories can be found [here](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv#playlists-by-category).
- commit all changes
- send a pull request

**Do you want to change the channel language?**

- find the file that contains the channel. You can use a [GitHub Search](https://github.com/search/advanced?q=CHANNEL_NAME+repo%3Aiptv-org%2Fiptv+path%3A%2Fchannels&type=Code) to do this.
- open the file
- find the channel description

> - specify the appropriate language in the `tvg-language` attribute. The name of the language must comply with [ISO 639-3](https://iso639-3.sil.org/code_tables/639/data?title=&field_iso639_cd_st_mmbrshp_639_1_tid=94671&name_3=&field_iso639_element_scope_tid=All&field_iso639_language_type_tid=51&items_per_page=500) standart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- specify the appropriate language in the `tvg-language` attribute. The name of the language must comply with the [ISO 639-3](https://iso639-3.sil.org/code_tables/639/data?title=&field_iso639_cd_st_mmbrshp_639_1_tid=94671&name_3=&field_iso639_element_scope_tid=All&field_iso639_language_type_tid=51&items_per_page=500) standard.
```

- commit all changes
- send a pull request

> If a channel is broadcast in several languages at once, you can specify them all through a semicolon, like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a channel is broadcasted in several languages at once, you can specify them all through a semicolon, like this:
```

```xml
#EXTINF:-1 tvg-language="English;Chinese",CCTV
http://example.com/cctv.m3u8
```

**Do you want to add a new EPG (Electronic Program Guide) source?**

- check which country the EPG is intended for
- check that this source is not already listed in the playlist. To do this, find the country in this [table](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv#playlists-by-country) and see if there is any other link. If not, continue.

> - find the corresponding ISO_3166-2 code for the country. You can find a full list of codes here: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-2

Reviewer: Make a direct link to it,
```suggestion
- find the corresponding [ISO_3166-2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-2) country code.
```

- open the `channels/` folder and find a file with the same name as the country code
- in the header of the playlist, next to `#EXTM3U`, add an `x-tvg-url` attribute with a link to the EPG source.

The result should be something like this:

```xml
#EXTM3U x-tvg-url="https://example.com/epg.xml.gz"
```

**Do you want to activate the program guide for the channel?**

- find out which country the channel belongs to. This information can usually be found on [lyngsat.com](https://www.lyngsat.com/search.html) or [wikipedia.org](https://www.wikipedia.org/)

> - find the corresponding ISO_3166-2 code for the country. You can find a full list of codes here: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-2

Reviewer: Same as above.
```suggestion
- find the corresponding [ISO_3166-2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-2) country code.
```

- open the `/channels` folder and find the file that has the same code in its name and open it
- check that the EPG source is specified in the file. To do this, just look at the header of the playlist. If the `x-tvg-url` attribute is present and has a link in it, everything is fine.
- open the file specified in the `x-tvg-url`
- find the channel list in the file. Usually it looks like this:

  ```xml
  <tv>
    <channel id="cnn">
      <display-name>CNN</display-name>
    </channel>
    <channel id="nbc">
      <display-name>NBC</display-name>
    </channel>
    ...
  </tv>
  ```

- find the channel you are interested in

> - copy it `id` and paste it to the `tvg-id` attribute of the channel description inside the playlist

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- copy the `id` section of the TVG XML file and paste it into the `tvg-id` attribute of the channel description inside the playlist
```

- copy the `<display-name>` tag value and paste it into the `tvg-name` attribute of the channel description. The result should be something like this:

```xml
#EXTINF:-1 tvg-id="cnn" tvg-name="CNN",CNN
http://example.com/cnn.m3u8
```

- commit all changes
- send a pull request

If you did everything right, then by opening a playlist in a player that supports EPG, you should see the program guide for all updated channels.

> In some cases, it may also be necessary to manually specify the source of EPG in the player itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, it may also be necessary to manually specify the EPG source in the player itself.
```

**Did you find a mistake in README.md?**

- open `.readme/template.md`

> - make any necessary changes to the file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- make the necessary changes
```

> - commit all changes

Reviewer: It's me being finicky.

```suggestion
- commit the updated README
```

- send a pull request

**Did you find a mistake in this guide?**

- open `.github/CONTRIBUTING.md`

> - make any necessary changes to the file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- make the necessary changes
```

> - commit all changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- commit the updated guide
```

  - ...
  - `int.m3u`: playlist for channels not belonging to any one particular country. These are usually channels that broadcast exclusively on the internet.
  - ...
  - `unsorted.m3u`: playlist with channels not yet sorted.
- `scripts/`
  - `format.js`: used within GitHub Action to sort channels and remove duplicates from each playlist.
  - `generate.js`: used within GitHub Action to generate all additional playlists.
  - `helper.js`: contains functions that are used in other scripts.
  - `test.js`: allows you to automatically test all channels in a playlist.
  - `update-readme.js`: used within GitHub Action to update the `README.md` file.
- `index.m3u`: main playlist that contains links to all playlists in the `channels/` folder.
- `README.md`: project description generated from the contents of the `.readme/` folder.

## Channel Description Scheme

Channels should be added to playlists using the following template.

Explanation of attributes:

```
#EXTINF:-1 tvg-id="EPG_ID" tvg-name="EPG_NAME" tvg-language="PRIMARY_LANGUAGE;SECONDARY_LANGUAGE" tvg-logo="LOGO_URL" group-title="CATEGORY",FULL_NAME STREAM_TIME_SHIFT (ALTERNATIVE_NAME) (STREAM_RESOLUTION) [STREAM_STATUS]

> STREAM_URL

Reviewer: Move this line and the line above to L185, then explain what the attributes are.

| `STREAM_RESOLUTION`  | The maximum height of the frame with a "p" at the end. In case of VLC Player this information can be found in `Window > Media Information... > Codec Details`. (optional)                                                                                                                        |
| `STREAM_STATUS`      | Specified if the broadcast for some reason is interrupted or does not work in a particular application. May contain any characters except round and square brackets. (optional)                                                                                                                  |
| `STREAM_URL`         | Channel broadcast URL.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |

Example:

```xml
#EXTINF:-1 tvg-id="example.ua" tvg-name="Example TV" tvg-language="Ukrainian;Russian" tvg-logo="https://i.imgur.com/bu12f89.png" group-title="Kids",Example TV +3 (Пример ТВ) (720p) [not 24/7]
https://example.com/playlist.m3u8
```

> Also, if necessary, you can specify custom HTTP User-Agent or Referrer via `#EXTVLCOPT` tag:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, if necessary, you can specify custom HTTP User-Agent or Referrer via the `#EXTVLCOPT` tag:
```

- send a pull request

In case you were unable to determine which country the channel belongs to, you can put a link to it in the `channels/unsorted.m3u`.

**Do you want to sort the channels from "channels/unsorted.m3u"?**

- find out the full name of the channel and from which country it is broadcasting. This information can usually be found on [lyngsat.com](https://www.lyngsat.com/search.html) or [wikipedia.org](https://www.wikipedia.org/)
- update the channel name if necessary
- find the corresponding country code in [ISO_3166-2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-2) table
- open the `channels/` folder and find a file with the same name as the country code
- at the very end of this file add a link to the channel with a description
- commit all changes
- send a pull request

**Did you find a mistake in README.md?**

- open `.readme/template.md`
- make any necessary changes to the file
- commit all changes
- send a pull request

**Did you find a mistake in this guide?**

- open `.github/CONTRIBUTING.md`
- make any necessary changes to the file
- commit all changes
- send a pull request

**Would you like us to remove the link to the channel you own the rights to?**

> - publish somethere DMCA notice

Reviewer 2: ?

> - publish somethere DMCA notice

Reviewer 2: Publish your DMCA notice somewhere.

Author: Fixed

  - `config.json`: config for the `markdown-include` package, which is used to compile everything into one `README.md` file.
  - `preview.png`: image displayed in the `README.md`.
  - `template.md`: template for `README.md`.
- `channels/`
  - `ad.m3u`: country specific playlist.
  - ...
  - `int.m3u`: playlist for channels not belonging to any one particular country. These are usually channels that broadcast exclusively on the internet.
  - ...
  - `unsorted.m3u`: playlist with channels not yet sorted.
- `scripts/`
  - `format.js`: used within GitHub Action to sort channels and remove duplicates from each playlist.
  - `generate.js`: used within GitHub Action to generate all additional playlists.
  - `helper.js`: contains functions that are used in other scripts.
  - `test.js`: allows you to automatically test all channels in a playlist.
  - `update-readme.js`: used within GitHub Action to update the `README.md` file.
- `index.m3u`: main playlist that contains links to all playlists in the `channels/` folder.
- `README.md`: project description generated from the contents of the `.readme/` folder.

## Channel Description Scheme

> 

Reviewer 2: Channels are added to playlists using the following format.

> 

Reviewer 2: Channels should be added to playlists using the following template.

```
#EXTINF:-1 tvg-id="EPG_ID" tvg-name="EPG_NAME" tvg-language="PRIMARY_LANGUAGE;SECONDARY_LANGUAGE" tvg-logo="LOGO_URL" group-title="CATEGORY",FULL_NAME STREAM_TIME_SHIFT (ALTERNATIVE_NAME) (STREAM_RESOLUTION) [STREAM_STATUS]
STREAM_URL
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ## Explanation of Attributes

Author: Added.

Create an [issue](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv/issues/new?assignees=&labels=broken+stream&template=broken-stream.md&title=Fix%3A+xxx) with a description of the channel (**IMPORTANT:** an issue should contain a report for only one channel, otherwise it will be closed immediately).

**Do you want to replace the broken stream?**

- make sure that the link you want to add works. It is recommended to use [VLC media player](https://www.videolan.org/vlc/index.html) for this.
- check if the channel is working outside your country. You can use services like [streamtest.in](https://streamtest.in/) to do this.

> - find out from which country channel is broadcasting. This information can usually be found on [lyngsat.com](https://www.lyngsat.com/search.html) or [wikipedia.org](https://www.wikipedia.org/)

Reviewer: from which country "**the**" channel is broadcasting.

- make sure that the link you want to add works. It is recommended to use [VLC media player](https://www.videolan.org/vlc/index.html) for this.
- check if the channel is working outside your country. You can use services like [streamtest.in](https://streamtest.in/) to do this.

> - find out from which the country channel is broadcasting. This information can usually be found on [lyngsat.com](https://www.lyngsat.com/search.html) or [wikipedia.org](https://www.wikipedia.org/)

Reviewer: Wrong position, "from which country **the** channel is being broadcasted."

- open the file
- find the channel description
- specify the appropriate category in the `group-title` attribute. A complete list of supported categories can be found [here](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv#playlists-by-category).
- commit all changes
- send a pull request

**Do you want to change the channel language?**

- find the file that contains the channel. You can use a [GitHub Search](https://github.com/search/advanced?q=CHANNEL_NAME+repo%3Aiptv-org%2Fiptv+path%3A%2Fchannels&type=Code) to do this.
- open the file
- find the channel description
- specify the appropriate language in the `tvg-language` attribute. The name of the language must comply with [ISO 639-3](https://iso639-3.sil.org/code_tables/639/data?title=&field_iso639_cd_st_mmbrshp_639_1_tid=94671&name_3=&field_iso639_element_scope_tid=All&field_iso639_language_type_tid=51&items_per_page=500) standart.
- commit all changes
- send a pull request

If a channel is broadcast in several languages at once, you can specify them all through a semicolon, like this:

```xml
#EXTINF:-1 tvg-language="English;Chinese",CCTV
http://example.com/cctv.m3u8
```

**Do you want to add a new EPG (Electronic Program Guide) source?**

> - check which country the EPG is intended for

Reviewer: Weird formulation. "Check for which country the EPG is intented for."

Prefer using (maybe) : - check the channels listed in the EPG and check where they're broadcasted.

- check that this source is not already listed in the playlist. To do this, find the country in this [table](https://github.com/iptv-org/iptv#playlists-by-country) and see if there is any other link. If not, continue.
- find the corresponding ISO_3166-2 code for the country. You can find a full list of codes here: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-2
- open the `channels/` folder and find a file with the same name as the country code
- in the header of the playlist, next to `#EXTM3U`, add an `x-tvg-url` attribute with a link to the EPG source.

> The result should look something like this:

Reviewer: the result should look like this / the result should be something like this

#EXTVLCOPT:http-user-agent=Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 10.0; Win64; x64)
http://example.com/stream.m3u8
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Why remove this section?

Author: Moved the remaining sections to the new version.
